Supervised machine learning is an
important way to do Relation Extraction.
The algorithm works as follows, we choose
some set of relations we like to extract.
We choose some set of entities we like
to extract the relationship in between.
And once it presumes we have some entity,
tagger can tag those entities.
And now we find some data and we label it.
So we choose some representative corpus,
we run our named entity tagger and
label the entities or
we label them by hand if it's small.
And now, by hand we label
the relationship between each entity, so
all the relations we're interested in,
we label all of them in the corpus.
And now, we break our corpus
into training, development and
test like we've done in the past for
all of our classification tasks.
And now, we train our classifier
on our training set and then,
we test it on our development and
test sets.
For efficiency reasons,
we often modify this algorithm slightly.
We first find all pairs of named entities,
usually occurring in the same sentence or
right near each other.
And we build one classifier which
just makes a yes, no decision.
Are these two instances
related in some way?
And if so, we then run to a second
classifier which classifies the relation.
So why do we build two
classifiers instead of one?
Usually, if we have a lot of data this
simple Boolean classifier that says these
things are probably related in
some way can be run very quickly,
can be train fast and run fast,
we can train in a lot of data.
And that will eliminate most pairs because
most entities in most senses are probably
not in whatever relation
that we're looking for.
And then we can use distinct
feature sets specific
to the sighting of two things
are related to each other at all and
the sighting of there in
a particular relation.
So again, we might use the relations for
example from the Automated Content
Extraction or ACE Task remember we had
six meta relations and
17 sub-types of those relations.
And given that set of relations,
our task is to classify the relation
between two entities in a sentence.
So imagine this sentence, American
Airlines a unit of AMR Immediately matched
the moves spokesman Tim Wagner said.
So, we have two entities, American
Airlines and Tim Wagner and our task
is to decide what the relationship
is between those two entities.
It might be family or citizen or
employment or it might nothing, it might
unrelated or it could be subsidiary or
founder or inventor and so on.
So what are the features that
we're going to use for this task?
And let's for now, imagine that we're
doing just a task of deciding what
the relationship is between the two.
So here is the sentence again,
where we have two mentions,
Mention 1 is American Airlines and
Mention 2 is Tim Wagner.
So one important feature is
the headwords of the two mentions.
So the headword of
American Airlines is Airlines, so
we'll talk more about headwords
when we get to parsing.
In this case,
American Airlines is an airline and
the headword of Tim Wagner will be Wagner.
And so, Airlines and
Wagner might be useful features.
And we can create a new feature which
is just the two combined together.
And sometimes that's going to be useful
because we're going to see the two heads
together often enough that that feature
might actually tell us some information.
So we have three features so far,
Airlines, Wagner and Airlines-Wagner.
We might through in the bag of words or
even a bag of bigrams that
are in the mentions themselves.
So the word American,
the word airlines, the word Tim, and
the word Wagner are all words
that occur in the two mentions.
And the bigram American Airlines and
the bigram Tim Wagner
occur in the two mentions.
And we might pick words or
bigrams that are in particular positions
to the left and right of the two mentions.
So for example, the word before Mention 2,
so we'll call this word minus 1,
with respect to Mention 2,
is the work spokesman.
And the word after Mention 2, so
we'll call this the word plus 1 with
respect to Mention 2, is the word said.
Or after Mention 1,
if we're counting punctuation,
our first word there is a comma.
If we're not counting punctuation or
first word is a and
the word before American Airlines is nil.
There's no word before American Airlines,
so we can have these
words that are specific, at specific
positions before and after each mention.
And we can have the words that are in
between the two mentions, so for example,
this between region.
So a unit of AMR immediately
matched the move,
spokesman between American Airlines and
Tim Wagner.
We can throw in a bag of those words,
so a, AMR, of, immediately,
and all those sort of thing or
in fact, if we have enough compute power
we can throw in bags of bigrams as well.
So all pairs of words
between the two entities.
We've already said that name-entity type
very important relation extraction, so
I want to know that the first
entity is an organization.
So American Airlines in organization,
the second mention Tim Wagner is a person.
And I might create a new feature just
by concatenating those two together.
So, a new feature called org-person which
is the concatenation of the two named
entity types.
A feature whose value is an org-person and
then we might add what's called
the entity level of the two mentions.
So the entity level is whether an entity
is a name, a nominal or a pronoun.
And very often, what we have is names,
but we also get nominals and
pronouns acting as name entities.
So, these two are both names, so
American Airlines is a name and
Tim Wagner is a name but if they put,
they were instead it or he,
then we will call this a pronoun.
And if it was a nominal like
the companies so not a proper noun,
then we will call that the nominal.
So, again another feature we can use for
each of the two mentions.
And we haven't talked yet about parsing,
but we can use lots of features related to
the parse once we parse the sentence, we
can extract lots of useful parse features.
And, just to give you the intuition
without going into the details of parsing.
We could extract what's called a
synantatic chunk sequence or a base chunk
sequence, so there's a couple of noun
phrases followed by preposition phrase.
So here, we have a noun phrase,
and a noun phrase, and
a preposition phrase, and a verb phrase,
and a noun phrase and so on.
So this sequence of syntactic chunks.
We can actually, run a parser and then
flatten out the parse into what's called
a constituent pass, and
we'll talk about how these work later.
But basically this is saying that,
we see the parse has a noun phrase whose
parent has a noun phrase whose parent
is a sentence whose parent is
another sentence and so on.
So it's another way of taking a complex
parse string, flattening it out and
we can have a dependency path,
for example.
We can say that the head said has an
argument which is Wagner and an argument
which is matched and matched has
an argument which is Airlines and so on.
So any of these kind of things can be used
as parse features for relation extraction.
And finally, we can use Gazeteer and
trigger word features.
So a trigger word is just a list of terms
that might be useful in
this particular domain.
So for example,
kinship terms are obviously useful for
just having if we have
the family relation.
So word like parent or wife or
husband or grandparent
are obviously words that are going to
help in finding a family relation.
And we can get these from online
databases, like the WordNet thesaurus, or
other places.
And a Gazeteer feature is a list of use
geographical or geopolitical words.
So we might have a country name list,
in a Gazeteer or other kinds of
sub-entities like names of rivers or
lakes or states or cities and so on.
That's going to help us know that
San Francisco is in California and
California is in the United States and
so on.
And we often, when we talk about
Gazeteer features, we might for
example, for
detecting name entities like person name.
Having a country name list isn't as useful
but having a list of common person names
in whatever language we're working
in might be a very useful feature.
And so, we often call those Gazeteer
features even though a name list isn't
really a Gazeteer, it's a list of names.
But sometimes we use the word
Gazeteer to mean to any long list of
useful proper nouns that might help
us in doing emented extraction.
So in summary, for our sentence
American Airlines, unit of AMR,
immediately matched the move
spokesman Tim Wagner said.
We might have a whole series of features,
so we might have the entity
type of the first mention being ORG,
and the second one being person.
And the head of the first
one being airlines, and
the head of the second one being Wagner.
And the Concatenated type feature
which's value is ORGPERS, and
then the bag of words of all of
the words between the two entities and
the word before entity one, which there
isn't one so that would be none or nill.
And the word after
Entity2 which is said and
then all the various parse
features that we talked about.
And we combine all these features and
we extract them from our training set,
we've stacked them from our test set and
we do standard classification.
And of course you can use
any classifier you'd like.
We've talked about the MaxEnt classifier
and the Naive Bayes classifier.
There's other classifiers like SVM.
Whatever you like and in each case, you
train your classifier on the training set.
You extract all these features for
deciding your relation.
Training that classifier in
the training set and then tune
any of your hyper parameters on the dev
set and then test on your unseen test set.
Like other kinds of classification,
Supervised Relation Extraction is
evaluated with precision recall in F1.
So, just as we saw with other
kinds of classification,
the precision is the number of
correctly extracted relations
over the total number
of relations extracted.
And the recall is the number of
correctly extracted relations
over the total number
of true gold relations.
So we're going to need to test that,
that's hand labeled for
the correct relations and
we can compute the precision recall.
And again,
the balance of the F1 is 2PR over P+R.
So in summary, supervised relation
extraction let's us get higher accuracy if
we have enough hand labeled data and
if the test set is in the same
domain as the training set.
The minuses of supervised relation
extraction are the expense of labelling
a large training set.
And the general problem
with supervise models,
which is that they don't generalize
well to different genres.
So if we know that we're going to run
our system on a similar genre to what we
have in training,
then supervise is a good approach.
If we're worried that the test set's
going to be very different than
the training set and we have to be able
to be very robust to different genres.
Then we'll probably need to turn to
unsupervised or semi-supervised methods.
So, supervised relation extraction,
an important way to do relation extraction
in cases when we can afford
to label a training set and
we thing our test domain is going to
be very similar to the training domain.